[MUSIC PLAYING]
[THEME MUSIC]
>>EMERY SMITH: Today
on "Cosmic Disclosure,"
we are with Richard Doty,
a retired Special Agent
who served in the
Air Force Office
of Special Investigations.
Richard was intimately
involved with UFO
ET-related intelligence.
Today we are
discussing your work
at the Institute
for Advanced Studies
and other relationships.
Richard, welcome to the show.
>>RICHARD DOTY:
Thank you, Emery.
It's good to be here.
>>EMERY: Well, you worked at the
Institute of Advanced Studies
back in 1994, correct?
>>DOTY: Yes.
>>EMERY: And what kind of
work were you doing there?
>>DOTY: Well, I met
Dr. Hal Puthoff,
who was the director
of the Institute
for Advanced Studies
at Austin at a seminar.
And he knew of me before
because of Kit Green,
who I'd worked with in the
intelligence community.
Kit introduced me to Hal.
>>EMERY: Big names there.
>>DOTY: Yes.
And so Hal asked
me to work for him.
And so I decided in
1994 that I would
go to work in a part-time basis
at first with Dr. Puthoff.
>>EMERY: Well, Dr.
Hal Puthoff was
involved with many, of course,
high-level programs and UAP
phenomena.
Is there anything you
could tell us about that?
And what was your role in that?
>>DOTY: Well, Dr. Puthoff
at the Institute down there,
he was intimately involved
with DARPA projects
and other projects, primarily
dealing with energy.
He had a theory that energy
devices, both ET and maybe
ours in the future,
could operate in what
he called zero-point energy.
And so he was involved in that.
He asked me to be a
field investigator,
to go out and
collect data that he
needed to advance to his
research in his laboratories.
He also asked me to interface
with the US intelligence
agencies and other agencies
within the United States
government.
And I agreed to do that.
>>EMERY: Rick, what three-letter
agencies did you actually
work with as a liaison?
>>DOTY: Well, I interfaced
with the Central Intelligence
Agency, both current
employees and past employees.
And I'm going to
talk about that.
My first-- actually
first project
involved interfacing with
one of the former directors
of the Central
Intelligence Agency.
Also, I interfaced with DIA.
I had contacts within the DIA.
And then there were
people that Dr. Puthoff
knew within these agencies,
CIA, DIA, and DARPA,
that Hal introduced me to.
So I had contacts within
those different agencies
and also within DARPA.
So I maintained
contacts and learned of
and was introduced
to new contacts
with these
intelligence agencies,
trying to obtain
information that they
could share with
me that would help
Dr. Puthoff in his research.
>>EMERY: And who
was the director
of the CIA at that time?
>>DOTY: In 1994, it was under
the Clinton administration.
But I didn't have contact
with that particular person.
>>EMERY: OK.
>>DOTY: My first project
was to make contact and get
information from
Richard Helms, who
was a former director
of Central Intelligence
Agency some years ago.
The first time I
met Richard Helms
was that at an Aviary meeting.
And I think I mentioned on
one of the "Cosmic Disclosure"
episodes, it was about 1980.
He came into the meeting.
He wasn't director of the
Central Intelligence Agency
anymore, but once you're
connected with the intelligence
community, you're always
connected, and especially
if you were the director.
I met him.
I became friends with him.
He just seemed to take
me under his wing.
He shared a lot of
information with me back then.
So I called him up and made
contact with Richard Helms.
And over the period
of several months,
he introduced me to
some other people.
But he shared a
lot of information
with me regarding the Central
Intelligence Agency's role
within the investigation and
categorization of information
regarding ETs and UFOs.
>>EMERY: What did Mr. Helms
tell you about the ETs and UFOs?
>>DOTY: In 1959, while he was
a young intelligence officer,
Richard Helms was introduced
to the subject of UFOs.
There was an incident
on his watch--
he was a station chief--
that involved
extraterrestrial contact.
And then he was briefed
in to the program.
And his briefing is almost
similar to my briefing.
The first part of the briefing
involved the first contacts
that we had with an
extraterrestrial race.
And that was a Roswell incident.
He told me all about how he
was briefed into the Roswell
incident and into the crash
sites at Corona and Magdalena,
and same information that
I had been briefed into.
And then, of course, he went in
more details about what the CIA
role was in collecting it.
And the CIA's role was
more foreign collection
than domestic collection.
And then he talked about other
contacts with extraterrestrials
that the CIA was involved with.
And most of them were overseas.
He talked about an
incident that occurred
in Norway, northern Norway.
There's a NATO base up there.
And there was a contact
there that he told me about.
And I believe that
was in 1956 or '57
that the CIA became
involved with.
Their case officers
went out and contacted
the people that observed this
landing up in northern Norway.
And back in those days,
there was always a threat
that a UFO was something
of a Soviet aircraft, maybe
a new design or an
experimental craft
that the Soviets were flying.
And so at that time
period, the CIA
was relatively new then,
because they came into existence
in 1947.
So they were the new people
on the block, so to speak.
And they were trying to
gather as much intelligence
as they could during those
days, especially regarding
the threat of
extraterrestrial contact
or what then in the early days
most of the CIA scientists
thought were possibly
Soviet spacecrafts.
And so he briefed me on many
other different incidents that
happened, some inside
the Soviet Union,
some inside Eastern Bloc
countries, some inside China,
information that was gathered
by the Central Intelligence
Agency.
>>EMERY: Could you elaborate
what happened in Norway
on that briefing?
>>DOTY: Well, the only
thing he told me was it
was a landing of a UFO at a
NATO base in northern Norway.
There was a contact with one
extraterrestrial, got out
of the craft.
And he didn't describe any
particular other details other
than there was an interface
between the extraterrestrial
and a NATO member.
And I believe the NATO member
was a Norwegian Air Force
member.
And there was an interface,
and the CIA investigated that.
I didn't know any
more details in that.
More or less what he
gave me was summaries
of what he knew about the
UFO phenomena within the CIA
back in those days.
>>EMERY: And was there
a lot of information
that he shared with you
that you were unaware of?
>>DOTY: Oh, yes, almost
everything that he talked about
regarding the CIA contacts with
ET races and incidents within
inside East Germany at
Leipzig and inside Russia near
a particular place in
Latvia and so forth--
I knew nothing of
those sightings.
I was never briefed into them.
So I was very
interested in hearing
what he had to say about that.
Of course, in 1994 when I first
regained contact with him,
I was out of intelligence then.
But I was very interested
in what he knew.
And he shared a
lot of information
with me, not in
a lot of details,
but he told me the
CIA was very involved
in the subject of the UFO
phenomena during his time in.
>>EMERY: In what way, then,
did the CIA and the Institute
of Advanced Studies--
what was that connection then?
What was their main role?
>>DOTY: Well, there
was a lot of things
that Dr. Puthoff was doing
in that I wasn't aware of
and I wasn't briefed into.
And he was
interfacing with a lot
of different agencies regarding
technology and research.
And it was my job to
go out and interface
and try to get contacts within
these different agencies.
Like he wanted me to interface
with a certain other person
within the CIA, who is
currently in the CIA,
that I can't mention his name,
but because that person was
a field operative who
had a lot of information
about technology,
and that's primarily
what Dr. Puthoff wanted
was technology, information
about technology or
advanced research
that the CIA might be doing.
And he didn't want
me to go out and try
to spy on the CIA or
anything like this.
Everything that I
wanted to do would
have to be agreeable
to the person
that I was making contact with.
>>EMERY: While Puthoff was
getting all this information
from all these agencies,
all these events,
what was he doing
with that information?
Where did it go to from there?
>>DOTY: That's a good question.
I wasn't privy to that.
I believe it was--
Dr. Puthoff was working
hand to hand with DARPA.
>>EMERY: Right.
>>DOTY: So DARPA had
a special section that
dealt with exotic technology.
And they didn't
name it UFOs or ET.
It was Exotic Technologies.
And they had companies.
Now, DARPA, which I'm
going to talk about later,
but DARPA was an
agency that controlled
advanced research
and development.
And they wanted other places--
because they didn't
have the scientists,
but they wanted other
companies, other entities
within the research community,
to look at what they have
and give them the ideas on
what or how this research could
be developed or understood.
And so that's where Dr.
Puthoff's Institute came in.
So, and I'm not really sure
how that all interfaced.
I mean, I wasn't
briefed into everything
that Dr. Puthoff was doing.
And I'm sure there was
a place where he sent
his information, his research.
But a lot of it remained
there at the laboratory.
He was trying to
reverse engineer things
at the Institute, too.
>>EMERY: Is it possible that Hal
Puthoff would receive devices,
parts of craft, or whatever
it was, and then it
was up to maybe him to say we
keep this and study this, maybe
this needs to go to
DARPA, this needs
to go to Raytheon,
other corporations.
>>DOTY: Yeah, you
know, he probably did.
But there's a lot of
proprietary information,
and I can't really share
because I was briefed in.
So, yeah, in some
respects that's true.
But most of what
he was getting, he
was contracted to
do certain things.
He wasn't doing anything outside
the realms of his own work.
I mean, he wasn't a
maverick, so to speak.
He had contracts and so
forth with companies,
way beyond my knowledge of it.
>>EMERY: What did
Mr. Helms talk to you
about with the reverse
engineering of ET craft,
of different ET tools?
>>DOTY: Well, he had
a lot of information
about what the CIA knew then.
And of course, this is
back in the '60s and '70s.
They certainly had-- he
called them trinkets.
He said, we obtain trinkets.
That was this famous term.
He would always use
the word "trinkets."
And then I learned, the
more I got to know him,
that the "trinkets" meant
coming from the ETs.
And they had-- the CIA
had contacts that weren't
shared with other agencies.
And they obtained
information and trinkets
where they didn't share
with other agencies.
And I was hoping that
he would open up with me
and tell me what
these trinkets were.
>>EMERY: Elaborate a little
bit what does "trinket" mean.
>>DOTY: Exactly, but,
you know, there's
things that he wouldn't
or couldn't say.
>>EMERY: Of course.
>>DOTY: And I'm not really
sure what those trinkets were
or what they were used for.
But one interesting
thing about Richard Helms
is-- and I mentioned this
before in an episode--
he was the original
Falcon in the Aviary.
And so he was only known by a
few people within the Aviary.
And Dr. Hal Puthoff was
a member of the Aviary,
and he was aware of
Richard Helms' position
within the Aviary and
how the Aviary fit
into Dr. Puthoff's laboratory.
>>EMERY: Is it possible to say
that captive extraterrestrials
fall into "trinkets?"
>>DOTY: I took that some of the
references to "trinkets" used
by Richard Helms meant captured
ETs, not anything that was here
as a gift.
Because he mentioned many
times that hostilities
were always prevalent when
an ET contact was made.
He didn't elaborate.
But I took it to
mean that there were
incidents where we captured.
And this is me saying this.
This isn't him saying it.
>>EMERY: Sure.
>>DOTY: But I took it to mean
that there were incidents
that either the CIA or some
military entity captured an ET
and then somehow the
CIA got custody of it.
>>EMERY: And what do they
do with these captured ETs?
Where do they take them or
interrogate them or put them
in cells?
What do they do with them?
>>DOTY: Well, all he
told me, the only mention
I ever made was, if you captured
one, what would you do with it?
He said we had places to put.
I don't know if that
was out of Area 51.
Because from the early
'50s up until 1975 or 1976,
the CIA owned Area 51.
I mean, the Air Force
used it, but the facility
was owned by the Central
Intelligence Agency.
>>EMERY: Do these captured
extraterrestrials ever
end up in the laboratory
of Dr. Hal Puthoff?
>>DOTY: I never saw one there,
but I know of an incident
where scientists that
worked with Dr. Puthoff
at the laboratory went
to another location
to examine not just
an ET, it was a body,
but what they had
in its possession.
And I wasn't there,
so I don't know what,
and I didn't go
with the scientists,
but I knew they did.
I knew they went.
There was an
occasion in the '90s
where they went to examine one.
And I believe they
were there to examine
the artifacts or the objects,
the devices, that the ET--
they recovered with the ET.
>>EMERY: And that was verified
by two of your colleagues.
>>DOTY: Yes.
>>EMERY: What other projects
relating to the Institute
were you part of?
>>DOTY: I went to it on
a trip to South Dakota
to speak to a rancher
about possible debris
that he'd recovered
from a crash UFO site.
And I had learned
from various sources
within the
intelligence community
that in 1970 an object landed
or crashed near a ranch
in or around Spearfish,
South Dakota.
And this was in
1970, winter of 1970.
I believe it was in
December of 1970.
Personnel from Ellsworth Air
Force base in South Dakota
sent a recovery team
and recovered the debris
at the crash site.
But it was wintertime.
There was a lot of
snow on the ground.
Sometime in the spring, the
rancher and another worker
went out to this crash site,
and at springtime all the snow
was gone, and found some debris.
And this rancher
kept the debris.
And a reporter from a
newspaper sometime later--
and now this is in
1994 that I did this--
spoke to him about
the crash site.
Did you know--
>>EMERY: How did
the reporter know?
>>DOTY: Something crashed.
The Air Force put out a false
disinformation story about a--
>>EMERY: No, they
would never do that.
[LAUGHING]
>>DOTY: They sent out-- they
put out a story in the 1970s
that some kind of a pod
fell off a B-52 bomber--
and they had B-52s
at Ellsworth--
and it crashed near
this rancher's farm.
And so that was the story.
The reporter thought there
might have been more to it,
but the rancher never told
the reporter anything other
than that.
I don't know what it was.
I wasn't out there.
The Air Force came in,
cleaned it up, and left.
And that was basically it.
Now, there was a
MUFON investigator
out of South Dakota
that I had contact
with through Bill Moore.
And this MUFON
investigator thought--
well, had reason to believe,
talking to other witnesses,
that it was a UFO that
crashed near Spearfish.
And so an intelligence
agency, DIA, then I
learned through a source within
DIA that it was, in fact, a UFO
and that they thought
there might still
be some debris there.
So then I went to South Dakota.
I went to the crash
site because I
had the GPS coordinates on it.
And there was nothing left
there that I could see.
Then I went and
contact the rancher.
And he was very old.
Most of my dealings was with his
son, interfaced with his son.
And I asked him, I
said, did you guys
ever go out and find
anything that was left out
of that crash site?
He said, well, we
have a souvenir.
I said, oh, you kept a souvenir?
He said, yeah, but I'm
not telling the Air Force.
It's our property, and
whatever lands here is ours.
Well, I didn't argue
with him, you know.
I'm not any longer in the
government or federal agency
or anything.
And I said, well,
did you ever consider
that that could be dangerous,
radioactive or something?
He said, well, we don't
keep it in the house.
I said, OK, well
can I look at it?
And I had a credential showing
I worked for the Institute
for Advanced Studies.
And I explained to him that we
were interested in this thing,
and we were interested
in any kind of debris,
and we'd like to
just to look at it
and maybe examine it if it's
from an extraterrestrial site.
And the sone said, well,
the Air Force is saying
it was from a B-52 bomber.
I said, well, I was
in the Air Force once,
and if it came out of a B-52--
now, most of this wasn't
actually true-- but I said,
I could probably identify it and
say, yeah, this is from a B-52
or this wasn't from a B-52.
And he said, well, they claimed
there was a pod on a B-52
that the pilots used
as a targeting system
and that's what landed.
And I said, yeah, I'm
familiar with that.
And I actually was.
I said, it's what's
called an MSQ-81 system.
It's a bombing site.
It's a target system.
Oh, he said, OK.
So I got into a--
he started believing what
I was saying, most of which
was truth, and
some of it was just
made up because I was
trying to get into it.
And he said, I'll
show it to you.
So he went out to a place,
another section of the house,
went down in the basement.
I didn't go down there with
him, but he brought up a box,
and he opened the box up.
And lo and behold, he
brings out this object,
which I knew what it was.
It was about 24 inches
long, about six inches wide,
and about two inches thick.
And it was clear, like a
hard piece of Plexiglas,
with a border, a hard, thick,
black border around it.
Now, I'd seen this before,
because it was the energy
device found in the
ET craft in 1947
that I seen at the Institute
that Hal Puthoff had tried
to figure out what it was.
And he was convinced it
was zero-point energy.
I looked at that
thing, and I told him,
I said, you know, I think
that's an energy device.
Well, at that point
he didn't believe me.
He said, you're blowing
smoke at me now,
because I don't believe--
I said, no, no,
seriously, I think
this is some kind
of ET energy device.
We'd like to be
able to examine it.
And so I started talking to him
about how the Institute could
come up and examine it, or if
you would let me take it back
I would certainly-- or we could
probably even pay him for it.
Now, I wasn't
authorized to say that.
But I figured if
Dr. Puthoff knew
this was an energy
device he'd say,
OK, we'll dish out some
money or maybe we'll
get DARPA or somebody else
to dish out some money.
He said, you're not taking it.
You can examine it.
You can do everything you want.
So I took pictures,
a lot of pictures.
I tried to scrape some stuff
off it, but I couldn't.
Nothing would scrape off.
So he said, I'll agree as
long as I can be there.
If you guys want to
send your scientists up,
I will sit down
with them and let
them do whatever they
need to do with it,
but I'm going to be there.
I said, OK, fair enough.
So I flew back to the Institute.
And they made arrangements, and
they sent scientists up there.
I didn't go with them.
>>EMERY: Oh, OK.
>>DOTY: But they went up
there, and what they found out
is, of course, is obviously
proprietary from that point on.
>>EMERY: Why do you
think these artifacts are
so significant to the agencies?
>>DOTY: Because they're
extraterrestrial in nature.
And they want to try to
advance our technology,
and they want to
try to understand,
to see if we could
somewhat reverse it.
I mean, the CIA had
scientists, especially there
in the early stages, primarily
foreign intelligence,
foreign technology, that they
were trying to understand,
the Soviets and the Chinese
and the Eastern Bloc countries'
technologies.
If they could obtain
something extraterrestrial
and reverse engineer it and
use it against our enemies,
that would be one step up.
>>EMERY: Do you believe
that has happened?
>>DOTY: I'm convinced
that's happened.
I am thoroughly convinced,
and I've seen things
that I can't talk about
that would convince me
without a shadow of a
doubt that we have reverse
engineered some things and now
we have them in our arsenal.
>>EMERY: I agree with you, Rick.
We went from so horse and
buggy to landing on the moon
so quickly.
And looking just at
a plasma TV screen
and infrared goggles, we're
not that smart, are we?
>>DOTY: No, and I think
Lieutenant Colonel Phil
Corso was absolutely, 100%
right about what he did.
I mean, now unfortunately
he passed away.
But there's other
people coming forth now
and the low-level people saying,
I worked with Colonel Corso
in the Pentagon or I went
with him at a certain place.
And so I think that
in the end, we're
going to find out that what
Lieutenant Colonel said
about the reverse
engineering, things
that he was responsible
for, is accurate.
>>EMERY: Do you believe
that we have craft that
can fly with zero-point energy?
>>DOTY: I think
that we have crafts
that utilize zero-point
energy for the electricity
or the power system.
>>EMERY: For the
anti-gravitic unit?
>>DOTY: Yeah, but
I'm not sure if it's
the actual propulsion
system that
is using the zero-point energy.
But I'm almost convinced
that it's in power systems.
Because the energy device
that we got from the ETs
and from other crash
sites is a power system.
It's like an electrical
generator, so to speak.
It'll power anything
from a little light bulb
up to a city and beyond.
And that gives the craft,
an ET craft, the power.
Now, the propulsion system
might be something different.
I'm not a technical
person, and I was never
briefed on any of that.
But I know that
the power system--
I know they're in crafts.
>>EMERY: Now, do
we have craft that
can fly off planet using
these reverse-engineered
technologies?
>>DOTY: I can't officially say
that my past experience or past
work where I saw one
or had access to it,
but my unofficial beliefs
is that, yes, we do.
We do have crafts that can fly
with either anti-matter or some
exotic--
and I don't know what it
is, but some exotic ET
reverse technology.
I saw a craft fly
when I was at Area 51.
This wasn't a
conventional craft.
It was able to do things
that a F-117 or a F-35
or a F-22 or a U2 or
any other plane that we
had in our arsenal could do.
And although no one
actually told me, I mean,
I could put two and two
together and figure that that
had to be reverse engineered.
Because what I was told
is that was one of ours.
And I said, well, what
system is it using?
He said, we got
it from a friend.
And that's it.
So, I mean, putting two and
two together, yeah, we did.
I saw something fly that
I couldn't understand.
And Bob Lazar
talked about things.
And I believe--
obviously I was at S-2.
He calls it S-4.
S-4 is the underground facility.
S-2 is the whole complex.
I mean, it's just a
difference of how you name it.
But when he talked to me
and told me what he did
and that's exactly how
you got into the facility,
I knew he had been there.
>>EMERY: Did you
have other colleagues
that collaborate with
your opinion on this
that you have spoke to?
>>DOTY: Many,
including scientists
and including personnel
at the Institute
that had knowledge above mine
and the technical knowledge
and technical experience that I
didn't have that told me, yeah,
we have crafts that can
do things like that.
>>EMERY: Rick, once again,
fascinating information.
You're always a wealth of intel.
Thank you so much for
being on the show.
>>DOTY: Thank you, Emery.
>>EMERY: My name is
Emery Smith, and this
is "Cosmic Disclosure."
Until next time.
[THEME MUSIC]